Guidelines for Submission of Project

All the candidates are required to submit a project report based on the work done by him/her during the project period.

THE GUIDE

The guide would be a person with 3 years’ experience in IT.

PROJECT TIME / MAN-HOURS

The Project would be approximately 600 man-hours. The Project topics should be based on syllabus or as per the requirements of specific industry in sync with the course. Every student has to prepare and submit the project work separately. Plagiarism would not be accepted under any circumstances.

Project Report should compulsorily include the software development, soft copy should also be submitted in a soft copy format on drive link shared by university.

Project Evaluation Guidelines.

The project is evaluated on the basis of following aspects:

Presentation - 25% of total marks. Viva - 20% of total marks.

Thesis/Project report - 30% of total marks.

Software Coding

i) Documentation - 10% of total marks.

ii) Software - 15% of total marks.

Passing criteria is 50% of overall marks allotted to the project.

SUMMARY/ABSTRACT

All students must submit a summary/abstract separately with the project report. Summary, preferably, should be of about 3-4 pages. The content should be as brief as is sufficient enough to explain the objective and implementation of the project that the candidate is going to take up. The write up must adhere to the guidelines and should include the following

§ Name / Title of the Project q Statement about the Problem

§ Why is the particular topic chosen?

§ Objective and scope of the Project

§ Methodology (including a summary of the project)

§ Hardware & Software to be used

§ Testing Technologies used

§ What contribution would the project make?

TOPIC OF THE PROJECT- This should be explicitly mentioned at the beginning of the Synopsis. This being the overall impression on the future work, the topic should be able to corroborate the work.

OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE: This should give a clear picture of the project. Objectives should be clearly specified. What the project ends up to and in what way this is going to help the end user has to be mentioned.

PROCESS DISCRIPTION: The process of the whole software system proposed, to be developed, should be mentioned in brief. This may be supported by DFDs / Flowcharts to explain the flow of the information.

RESOURCES AND LIMITATIONS: The requirement of resources for designing and developing the proposed system must be given. The resources might be in form of hardware/software or data from the industry. The limitations of the proposed system in respect of a larger and comprehensive system must be given.

CONCLUSION: The write-up must end with the concluding remarks-briefly describing innovation in the approach for implementing the Project, main achievements and also any other important feature that makes the system stand out from the rest.



FORMAT OF THE STUDENT PROJECT REPORT ON COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT

1. Cover Page as per format

2. Acknowledgement

3. Certificate of the project guide as per Annexure A

4. Synopsis of the Project

5. Main Report

Objective & Scope of the Project Theoretical Background

Definition of Problem

System Analysis & Design vis-a-vis User Requirements System Planning (PERT Chart)

Process Logic of each Module

Methodology adopted, System Implementation & Details of Hardware & Software used System Maintenance & Evaluation

Cost and benefit Analysis

Detailed Life Cycle of the Project

o ERD, DFD o Input and Output Screen Design

o Process involved

o Methodology used for testing:

o Test Report, Printout of the Reports, Printout of the Code Sheet


User/Operational Manual - including security aspects, access rights, back up, controls, etc. Soft copy of the project on CD/Floppy to be submitted with Hard Bound Project Report

Annexure to the Project Report:

1. Brief background of the organization where the student has developed the project, if applicable.


2. Data Dictionary - This should give a catalogue of the data elements used in the system / sub system developed. The following are the details required. Write NA if NOT applicable:

Data Name, Aliases, if any Length (Size) Type,

Numeric, Alpha, Binary etc.


3. List of abbreviations, Figures, Tables


4. References Bibliography Website


5. Soft copy of the project on CD/Floppy


6. Guide Details:

· Guide Name

· Full Address

· Qualification

· Mobile

· Email


7. Certificate from Guide


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


In the “Acknowledgement” page, the student recognizes his indebtedness for guidance and assistance of the thesis provided by the guide, adviser and other members of the faculty. Acknowledgements should be expressed to all concerned members of the company / organization who has helped during the project work.


BIBLIOGRAPHY : (EXAMPLE)

1. D.L. Carney, J.I. Cochrane, “The 5ESS Switching System: Architectural Overview,” AT&T Technical Journal, vol. 64 , no. 6 , July-August 1985, pp. 1339- 1356.

2. J. Martin, Computer Data-base Organization, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ,1977, p. 53.





Annexure A


CERTIFICATE FROM GUIDE (Format)

This is to certify that this project entitled “ ” submitted in partial fulfillment of the degree of PROGRAM NAME to the UNIVERSITY NAME done by Mr./Ms. , Roll No. is an authentic work carried out by him/her under my guidance. The matter embodied in this project work has not been submitted earlier for award of any degree or diploma to the best of my knowledge and belief.




Signature of the student Signature of the Guide Date-
